these are forests that a dinosaur might
recognize living links to New Zealand's
primeval past around 16 months ago a
mother laid these eggs buried them and
then left them too afraid only in the
special filming burrow can we capture
intimate details like this egg tooth
tuatara are the last survivors of an
ancient dynasty of reptile which
flourished during the Jurassic age these
baby predators need to eat to grow
quickly but for youngsters this small
its eat or be eaten there is the threat
of prehistoric predators adult tuatara
are more than 50 times as big
they are known to be cannibals
if you want to avoid being dish of the
day
then the trick is to stay absolutely
still fortunately a cockroach is a tasty
distraction but even the bugs can be
deadly giant centipedes more than 16
centimetres long would make short work
of a baby - at our
and velvet worms have digestive saliva
they've been on patrol for 500 million
years best give her a wide berth
he's still hungry and this fat and juicy
insect is packed with protein another
prehistoric New Zealand specialty a
wetter in this topsy-turvy land a baby
to a Tara needs to learn the bugs can be
bigger than the beasts
[Music]
you